How to set a username and password to never expires.

Why /etc/passwd and /ete/shadow file cannot be merged into 1 file.

To list, all the files opened by particular PID.

We are unable to unmount the file system. What are the reason behind it ?.
What could be the reason it server take more time after reboot?.

we are trying to create the file under any partition but we are getting permission denied alert. What could be the reason? However space issue and no permission issue?

How to check kernel routing table Information?

route. $ sudo route -n. Kernel IP routing table. Destination Gateway Genmask Flags Metric Ref Use Iface. ...
netstat. $ netstat -rn. Kernel IP routing table. ...
ip. $ ip route list. 192.168.0.0/24 dev eth0 proto kernel scope link src 192.168.0.103.


How to set sticky bit and what is the difference b/w smalls and capital S

How to set sticky bit and what is the difference b/w small s and capital S

Which file is used to specify default gateway?

In RHEL 7,how to switch between two runlevels?

What is NFS ? How to configure it? What port no it does use ?

What is nice value and how to set nice value for particular process?

What is the difference b/w FTP and TFTP?

How to extend the file system in Linux ?

How will you rollback the packages after patching?

What is rsync and what is the syntax for rsync??

How to reduce the file system in linux ? FS reduction can be happened online or

How to set the numbering of lines for file by using vi editor?

How to SCAN the disk in linux?

etc/fstab file is having how many feilds and describe the meaning of each field?

What is the difference b/w SOFT link and HARD link? How to create it?


Can we create the SOFT link accross the partition? (yes/No) Please describe your answer?

What is the location of HFS shared info?

How to check it any particular port is listening or not?

What is concept behind journalling? What is the pros and cons ?

While doing patching suppose one package is not allowing you to do patch. Which command would you execute and how will you troubleshoot?

Process Monitoring
Performance Monitoring
Networking Tools
Text Manipulation
Other Linux Commands



